In the chimney corner of a cottage in Avignon, a man sat one day watching the
smoke as it rose in changing clouds from the smouldering embers to the sooty
cavern above, and if those who did not know him had supposed from his attitude
that he was a most idle person, they would have been very far from the truth.

It was in the days when the combined fleets of Europe were thundering with
cannon on the rocky walls of Gibraltar, in the hope of driving the English
out, and, the long effort having proved in vain, Joseph Montgolfier, of whom
we have spoken, fell to wondering, as he sat by the fire, how the great task
could be accomplished.

'If the soldiers and sailors could only fly,' he thought, 'there would be no
difficulty.' He looked at a picture of the Rock lying on the table beside him,
and saw many places on its summit very suitable for such flying foes to settle
on. 'But, ah! who could give them wings?' He turned to the fireplace, and his
eyes fell once more on the column of smoke, silently, silently rising; and yet
not so silently as the world might think, for though he had not yet quite
understood its meaning, Joseph Montgolfier had been striving for some time
past to learn the lesson which he felt sure it was to teach him at last. And
to-day the secret came out. Thoughts so active as his did not take long to get
from Gibraltar back to the smoke, and they had not been there many minutes
when Montgolfier jumped from his seat, and, throwing open the door of the
room, called to his landlady. A great idea had occurred to him, and, to carry
it out, he required some light, silky material, called taffeta. This the good
landlady quickly supplied, and when she entered the room some time later, she
found her lodger holding the taffeta, which he had formed into a bag, over the
fire. As the smoke filled it, it certainly showed an inclination to rise, but
once out of reach of the warmest glow it toppled over and collapsed on the
floor.

The landlady watched the experiments for some time in silence. Then, with a
little laugh, she said, 'Ah, M. Montgolfier, why do you not tie the fire to
the bag?'

The great inventor had not thought of that; but he did not require to be told
twice, and obtaining a little bunch of some inflammable material, he tied it
under his bag and set it on fire. The smoke and heat inflated the tiny
balloon, and it rose at once to the ceiling. A few minutes later the inventor
called for pen and ink, and wrote the following letter:

'Prepare without delay a supply of taffeta and cordage, and you shall see one
of the most astonishing things in the world.'
